Update Debugging Guide (#1776)
astronomer/docs: learn/debugging-dags.md

## Assumed knowledge

To get the most out of this guide, you should have an understanding of:

- Basic Airflow concepts. See [Get started with Airflow tutorial](get-started-with-airflow.md).
- Basic knowledge of Airflow DAGs. See [Introduction to Airflow DAGs](dags.md).

## General Airflow debugging approach

Due to Airflow being a multifunctional tool at the heart of the data engineering stack it is impossible to list all issues that can arise. These questions will give you a starting point when troubleshooting:

- Is the problem with Airflow or with another system Airflow connects to? Test if the action can be performed in the external system from its UI, a script or the command-line.
- What is the state of your [Airflow components](airflow-components.md)? Inspect the logs of each component and restart your Airflow environment.

> - Does Airflow have access to all relevant files? This is especially relevant when running Airflow in Docker, for example using the Astro CLI.

Reviewer: link to CLI docs here?

> - Are the [Airflow connections](connections.md) set correctly with correct credentials? See also [Troubleshooting connections](#troubleshooting-connections).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Are the [Airflow connections](connections.md) set up correctly ? See also [Troubleshooting connections](#troubleshooting-connections).
```

- Is the issue with all DAGs or isolated to one DAG?
- Can you collect the relevant logs? For more information on log location and configuration see the [Airflow logging](logging.md) guide.
- Which versions of Airflow and Airflow providers are you using? Check if the documentation you are following matches your package versions.
- Can you reproduce the problem in a new local Airflow instance using the [Astro CLI](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/cli/install-cli)?

> Answering these questions will help you narrow down what kind of issue your dealing with and inform your next steps. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Answering these questions will help you narrow down what kind of issue you're dealing with and inform your next steps. 
```

## Airflow is not starting

The 3 most common ways to run Airflow locally are the [Astro CLI]((https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/cli/install-cli)), a [standalone instance](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/start.html) or running [Airflow in Docker](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/howto/docker-compose/index.html). 

> To first get started we recommend using the free and open-source Astro CLI, which in most cases is easy to set up. The most common causes for issues when starting the Astro CLI are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For new Airflow users, we recommend using the free and open-source Astro CLI. The most common causes for issues when starting the Astro CLI are:
```

- The Astro CLI was not correctly installed. Run `astro version` and consider upgrading if your version is outdated.
- The Docker Daemon is not running. Make sure to start Docker Desktop before starting the Astro CLI.

> - Errors caused by custom commands in the Dockerfile, conflicts or dependencies in the packages located in `packages.txt` and `requirements.txt`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- There are errors caused by custom commands in the Dockerfile, or dependency conflicts in the packages located in `packages.txt` and `requirements.txt`. 
```

- The components are in a crash-loop because of errors in custom code in features like plugins or a custom XCom backend. Check out the scheduler logs with `astro dev logs -s` to troubleshoot.

:::info

> To troubleshoot infrastructure issues when running Airflow on other platforms, for example in Docker, on Kubernetes using the [Helm Chart](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/helm-chart/stable/index.html) or on managed services please refer to the relevant documentation and customer support.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To troubleshoot infrastructure issues when running Airflow on other platforms, for example in Docker, on Kubernetes using the [Helm Chart](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/helm-chart/stable/index.html) or on managed services, please refer to the relevant documentation and customer support.
```

:::

## Common DAG issues

> This section covers common issues related to DAGs you might encounter when developing locally.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section covers common issues related to DAGs.
```
On the local bit, maybe just add something in the intro that the troubleshooting steps presented here are focused on local development? Because the issues themselves can happen anywhere.

### DAGs don't appear in the Airflow UI

If a DAG isn't appearing in the Airflow UI, it's typically because Airflow is unable to parse the DAG. If this is the case, you'll see an `Import Error` in the Airflow UI. 

![Import Error](/img/guides/import_error_2.png)

> The error message often helps you in troubleshooting and resolving the issue. In the example above a task in the DAG located in the `expand_tg.py` file is missing the mandatory `task_id` parameter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The error message often helps you in troubleshooting and resolving the issue. In the example above, a task in the  `expand_tg.py` DAG is missing the mandatory `task_id` parameter.
```

:::tip

> You can fetch import errors using the Astro CLI by running `astro dev run dags list-import-errors`. (Airflow CLI: `airflow dags list-import-errors`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can fetch import errors using the Astro CLI by running `astro dev run dags list-import-errors`, or using the Airflow CLI by running `airflow dags list-import-errors`.
```

- Airflow scans the `dags` folder for new DAGs every [`dag_dir_list_interval`](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/configurations-ref.html#dag-dir-list-interval), which defaults to 5 minutes but can be modified. You might have to wait until this interval has passed before a new DAG appears in the Airflow UI or restart your Airflow environment. 
- Ensure that you have permission to see the DAGs, and that the permissions on the DAG file are correct.
- Run `astro dev run dags list` with the Astro CLI (Airflow CLI: `airflow dags list`) to make sure that Airflow has registered the DAG in the metadata database. If the DAG appears in the list but not in the UI, try restarting the webserver.
- Try restarting the scheduler with `astro dev restart`.
- If you see an error similar to the following image indicating that the scheduler is not running, check the scheduler logs to see if an error in a DAG file is causing the scheduler to crash. If you are using the Astro CLI, run `astro dev logs -s` and then try restarting.

    ![No Scheduler](/img/guides/scheduler_not_running_2.png)

At the code level ensure that each DAG:

> - has a unique `dag_id`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Has a unique `dag_id`.
```

> - contains either the word `airflow` or `dag` (the scheduler will only parse files fulfilling this condition).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Contains either the word `airflow` or the word `dag` (the scheduler will only parse files fulfilling this condition).
```

> - that was defined with the `@dag` decorator is called. See also [Introduction to Airflow decorators](airflow-decorators.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Contains a call of the function defined with the `@dag` decorator. See also [Introduction to Airflow decorators](airflow-decorators.md).
```

If your DAGs are either not running or running differently than you intended, consider checking the following common causes:

One thing to watch for, especially with Python packages, is dependency conflicts. If you are running Airflow using Docker, these conflicts can cause errors when you build your image. With the Astro CLI, errors and warnings are printed in your terminal when you run `astro dev start`, and you might see import errors for your DAGs in the Airflow UI when packages fail to install. In general, all packages you install should be available in your scheduler pod. To confirm you packages were installed successfully, see [Confirm your package was installed](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/develop-project#confirm-your-package-was-installed).
- DAGs need to be unpaused in order to run on their schedule. You can unpause a DAG by clicking the toggle on the lefthand side of the Airflow UI or via the [Airflow CLI](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/cli-and-env-variables-ref.html#unpause).

> If you're unable to resolve package conflicts, add your DAGs to multiple projects that are run on separate Airflow deployments so that DAGs requiring conflicting packages are not in the same environment. For example, you might have a set of DAGs that require package X that run on Airflow Deployment A, and another set of DAGs that require package Y (which conflicts with package X) that run on Airflow Deployment B. Alternatively, you can use the [Kubernetes Pod Operator](https://registry.astronomer.io/providers/kubernetes/modules/kubernetespodoperator) to isolate package dependencies to a specific task and avoid conflicts in your Airflow environment.

Reviewer: I think we still want to include this note about running DAGs in separate Airflow deployments to avoid package conflicts. Still a very relevant solution, particularly for Astro customers.

> - Make sure your DAG has a `start_date` in the past.

Reviewer: I would keep the note that we had on this one that triggering a DAG with a future start date results in a successful DAG run but no tasks. I've seen that trip people up (myself included) multiple times.

Author: Ha, very good point! Yeah the first time that happened to me sent me on bit of a treasure hunt and I was very close to asking on Slack 😅 before noticing my tomorrow start date.

> using `astro dev logs -s`. 

Author: Mostly if the scheduler is running at all, in which case we could also point to `http://localhost:8080/health` maybe? 
Though the next action is almost always to pull up the scheduler logs, to see the last actions the scheduler took and if there were any error messages, both if the health check deems it healthy or unhealthy.

- If no DAGs are running, check the state of your scheduler 
using `astro dev logs -s`. 
- If many runs of your DAG are being scheduled after you unpause it, you most likely need to set the DAG parameter `catchup=False`.

- Make sure your DAG is unpaused. If your DAG is paused when you trigger it, the tasks will not run. 
If your DAG is running but not at the schedule you intended review the [DAG scheduling and timetables in Airflow](scheduling-in-airflow.md) guide. If you are using a custom timetable, ensure that the data interval for your DAG run does not precede the DAG start date.

    ![Paused DAG](/img/guides/paused_dag.png)
## Common Task issues

    DAGs are paused by default, but you can change this behavior by setting `dags_are_paused_at_creation=False` in your Airflow config. If you do this, be aware of the `catchup` parameter in your DAGs.
This section covers common issues related to tasks within DAGs you might encounter when developing locally. If a whole DAG is not running, please refer to the [DAGs are not running correctly](#dags-are-not-running-correctly) section above.

>     In Airflow 2.2 and later, paused DAGs are unpaused automatically when you manually trigger them.

Reviewer: I would still include this note

![Get Logs](/img/guides/access_logs_grid_view.png)

The task logs provide information about the error that caused the failure. 

![Error Log](/img/guides/error_log_2.png)

To help identify and resolve task failures, you can set up error notifications. See [Error Notifications in Airflow](error-notifications-in-airflow.md).

Task failures in newly developed DAGs with error messages such as `Task exited with return code Negsignal.SIGKILL` or containing a `-9` error code are often caused by a lack of memory. Increase the resources for your scheduler, webserver, or pod, depending on whether you're running the Local, Celery, or Kubernetes executors respectively.

:::info

After resolving your issue you may want to rerun your DAGs or tasks, see [Rerunning DAGs](rerunning-dags.md). 

:::

### Issues with dynamically mapped tasks

> [Dynamic task mapping](dynamic-tasks.md) is a powerful feature that was introduced in Airflow 2.3 to allow you to dynamically adjust the number of tasks based on changing input parameters at runtime. Starting with Airflow 2.5.0 you can even dynamically map over task groups.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Dynamic task mapping](dynamic-tasks.md) is a powerful feature that was introduced in Airflow 2.3 to allow you to dynamically adjust the number of tasks at runtime based on changing input parameters. Starting with Airflow 2.5.0, you can also dynamically map over task groups.
```

> Common reasons for errors when dealing with dynamically mapped tasks are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Things to be aware of when working with dynamically mapped tasks include:
```

- Make sure you are providing a keyword argument to the `.expand()` function. 

> - When using `.expand_kwargs()` provide the mapped parameters in the form of a `List(Dict)`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- When using `.expand_kwargs()`, provide the mapped parameters in the form of a `List(Dict)`.
```

> - Attempting to map over an empty list will cause the mapped task to be skipped.

Reviewer: I would make this sentence action-oriented, like the others. So something like "Make sure the list you are mapping over is populations. Attempting to map over an empty list..."

Author: Jake was faster than me and suggested a "you did x which caused [error]" pattern. :)

> - The limit for how many mapped task instances can be created of a task depends on the Airflow core config [`max_map_length`](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/configurations-ref.html#max-map-length) and is 1024 by default. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The limit for how many mapped task instances can be created depends on the Airflow core config [`max_map_length`](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/configurations-ref.html#max-map-length) and is 1024 by default. 
```

- The number of mapped task instances of a specific task that can run in parallel across all runs of a given DAG depend on the task level parameter `max_active_tis_per_dag`.  
- Not all parameters are mappeable. If a parameter does not support mapping you will receive an Import Error like in the screenshot below.

    ![Unmappeable Error](/img/guides/error_unmappeable.png)

> When creating complex patterns with dynamically mapped tasks we recommend to first create your DAG structure using EmptyOperators and decorated Python operators. Once the structure works as intended you can start adding your tasks. Refer to the [Create dynamic Airflow tasks](dynamic-tasks.md) guide for code examples.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When creating complex patterns with dynamically mapped tasks, we recommend first creating your DAG structure using EmptyOperators or decorated Python operators. Once the structure works as intended, you can start adding your tasks. Refer to the [Create dynamic Airflow tasks](dynamic-tasks.md) guide for code examples.
```

- Increase the resources available to your workers (if using the Celery executor) or scheduler (if using the local executor).
- If you're using the Kubernetes executor and a task fails very quickly (in less than 15 seconds), the pod running the task spins down before the webserver has a chance to collect the logs from the pod. If possible, try building in some wait time to your task depending on which operator you're using. If that isn't possible, try to diagnose what could be causing a near-immediate failure in your task. This is often related to either lack of resources or an error in the task configuration.
- Increase the CPU or memory for the task.

> - Ensure that your logs are retained until you need to access them. The default log retention period on Astronomer is 15 days, so any logs outside of the retention period are not available. 

Author: Is this still correct?

Reviewer: It may still be correct for software, but we should update to only discuss Astro. Based on our docs, looks like task logs are stored in S3 and can be accessed indefinitely, but scheduler logs are available on the logs page for 24 hours. https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/view-logs

The following are some debugging steps you can try:

> - Review the [Manage connections in Apache Airflow](connections.md) guide to learn how connections work.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Review [Manage connections in Apache Airflow](connections.md) to learn how connections work.
```

> - Make sure you have the necessary provider packages installed in order to be able to use a specific connection type.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Make sure you have the necessary provider packages installed to be able to use a specific connection type.
```

- Change the `default` connection to use your connection details or define a new connection with a different name and pass the new name to the hook or operator.
- Define connections using Airflow environment variables instead of adding them in the Airflow UI. Make sure you're not defining the same connection in multiple places. If you do, the environment variable takes precedence.
- Test if your credentials work when used in a direct API call to the external tool.

> - Use the test connection feature that many connection types have available.

Reviewer: I would still note that this is only available in 2.2+

    ![Test Connections](/img/guides/test_connections_2.png)

To find information about what parameters are required for a specific connection:

> 1. Use the Docs tab of your provider in the Astronomer Registry to access the Apache Airflow documentation for the provider. Most commonly used providers will have documentation on each of their associated connection types. For example, you can find information on how to set up different connections to Azure in the Azure provider docs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Read provider documentation in the [Astronomer Registry](https://registry.astronomer.io/providers?page=1) to access the Apache Airflow documentation for the provider. Most commonly used providers will have documentation on each of their associated connection types. For example, you can find information on how to set up different connections to Azure in the Azure provider docs.
```

> 2. Check the documentation of the external tool you are connecting to and see if it offers guidance on how to authenticate.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Check the documentation of the external tool you are connecting to and see if it offers guidance on how to authenticate.
```

> 3. Refer to the source code of the hook that is being used by your operator.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- View the the source code of the hook that is being used by your operator.
```

## I need more help

> The information provided here should help you resolve the most common issues. If your issue was not covered in this guide and you are looking for more assistance we recommend the following avenues:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The information provided here should help you resolve the most common issues. If your issue was not covered in this guide, try the following resources:
```

> - Post your question to [Stackoverflow](https://stackoverflow.com/), tagged with `airflow` and other relevant tools you are using. Using Stackoverflow is ideal when you are unsure which tool is causing the error, since experts for different tools will be able to see your question.

Reviewer: Let's add another bullet here first saying that Astronomer customers can contact our support, with a link.

> - Post your question to [Stackoverflow](https://stackoverflow.com/), tagged with `airflow` and other relevant tools you are using. Using Stackoverflow is ideal when you are unsure which tool is causing the error, since experts for different tools will be able to see your question.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Post your question to [Stack Overflow](https://stackoverflow.com/), tagged with `airflow` and other relevant tools you are using. Using Stack Overflow is ideal when you are unsure which tool is causing the error, since experts for different tools will be able to see your question.
```

- Join the [Apache Airflow Slack](https://apache-airflow-slack.herokuapp.com/) and open a thread in `#newbie-questions` or `#troubleshooting`. The Airflow slack is the best place to get answers to more complex Airflow specific questions. 
- If you found a bug in Airflow or one of its core providers, please open an issue in the [Airflow GitHub repository](https://github.com/apache/airflow/issues). For bugs in Astronomer open source tools please open an issue in the relevant [Astronomer repository](https://github.com/astronomer).

> To help the helpers and get more tailored answers, please include the following information in your question or issue:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To get more specific answers to your question, include the following information in your question or issue:
```

> - The way you are running Airflow (Astro CLI, standalone, Docker, managed services).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Your method for running Airflow (Astro CLI, standalone, Docker, managed services).
```

- Your Airflow version and the version of relevant providers.
- The full error with the error trace if applicable. 
- The full code of the DAG causing the error if applicable.
- What you are trying to accomplish in as much detail as possible.

> - If something has worked before and stopped working: what has recently changed?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- What you changed in your environment when the problem started.
```

:::info

> Found an error in one of our guides, tutorials or docs? Please tell us via an issue in the [Astronomer docs repository](https://github.com/astronomer/docs/issues). :)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Found an error in one of our guides, tutorials, or docs? Write an issue in the [Astronomer docs repository](https://github.com/astronomer/docs/issues). 
```

Reviewer 2: Can't say I love this note, I'd prefer if we worked with Katie on integrating something like this into the footer of every doc page.

Author: Yeah I was on the fence about including it. I'll remove it :)
